The story of human
evolution can be
scientifically studied
with the help of
archaeology and anthropology.

Anthropologists have
unearthed the footprints of humans
in a country called Tanzania, which is
in eastern Africa. They were found in
rock beds submerged under the sand.

Archaeology is the study of pre
historic humans remained materials
used by pre historic humans. Excavated
material remains are the main source
for archaeological studies.

Anthropology is the study of humans and evolutionary history.
The word anthropology is derived from two Greek words: anthropos meaning "man" or "human"; and logos, meaning "thought" or "reason." Anthropologists attempt, by investigating the whole range of human development and behavior, to achieve a total description of cultural and social phenomena.

Radio carbon dating was used to ascertain the period. It was found out that the foot prints of humans they had discovered were about 3.5 millions years o

Australopithecus - East Africa
Homohabilis - South Africa
Homoerectus - Africa and Asia
Neanderthal - Eurasia (Europe and Asia)
Cro-Magnons - France
Peking - China
Homo sapiens - Africa
Heidelbergs - Londo

Cromagnons learned to live in caves.
Lascaus caves in France is the evidence for cave living of Cromagnons. They habitude to bury the dead.

Art of Flaking
Keeping a stone in the bottom and sharpening it with another stone.

The best stone for the making weapons was chikki – mukki kal (flint). It is known for its strength and durability.

Even today in the
villages of Nilgiris
district in Tamil Nadu,
people have the habit
of making fire without use of match box

Humans learned to make pot with clay.
The invention of wheel made pot making
easier

pproximately there are 750 caves, in which 500 caves have paintings

Pre-Historic Rock Art of Tamilnadu

Keelvalai -Villupuram
Usilampatti - Madurai
Kumuthipathi - Coimbatore
Mavadaippu - Coimbatore
Porivarai cave-karikaiyur Nilgris

Oxen were used for ploughing.

Thus dogs became the first animal to be domesticated by humans. Following the dogs, they started domesticating hen, goat and cow

The surplus grains were exchanged with other groups for the other things they were in need of. This is called the barter system.

Evolution means the process in which humankind changes and develops into an advanced stage. )
Homo sapiens migrated out of eastern Africa and settled in different parts of the world. )
Humans with the help of the Chikki mukki – kal (flint) made sharp weapons and tools. )
Fire was used by early human to protect him from predators, for cooking food and for the light during night. )
The invention of wheel is considered to be the foremost invention. It made pot making easier. )
We get knowledge about the past lifestyle through rock paintings.

Hides
-
tanned skin of an animal

The process of evolution is .
a. direct b. indirect
c. gradual d. fast
2.
Tanzania is situated in the continent of .
a. Asia b. Africa
c. America d. Europe

Statement: Migration of man of different Parts of the world resulted in changes of physic and colour
Reason: climatic changes

III. Find out the Wrong pair:
Australopithecus
-
Walked on both legs
b. Homo habilis
-
Upright man
c. Homo erectus
-
Wise man
d. Homo sapiens
-
Less protruding face

1.
---------unearthed the footprints of humans in Tanzania.
2.
Millions of years ago, our ancestors led a---------- life.
3.
The main occupations of the ancient humans were---------- and ------.
4.
The invention of-------- made farming easier.
5.
Rock paintings are found at in---------- Nilgiris.

State True or False :
1.
Anthropology is the study of coins.
2.
Homo erectus (Java man) had the knowledge of fire.
3.
The first scientific invention of humans was wheel.
4.
Goat was the first animal to be domesticated by humans.































































