Time in history is calculated in years using BCE/CE, which stands for Before Common
Era/ Common Era.
The term history has been derived from the Greek word “Istoria” which means ‘learning by enquiry’.
In ancient period, the people lived in caves, used to draw paintings in rocks called Rock Painting. They might have wished to record their activities through these paintings.
Numismatics – The study of Coins Epigraphy- The study of inscription
It was during his period that Buddhism spread to different parts of Asia
Ashoka gave up war after seeing many people grieving death after the Kalinga war
He embraced Buddhism and then devoted his life to spread the message of peace and dharma.
He was the first ruler to give up war after victory. He was the first to build hospitals for animals. He was the first to lay roads. Dharma Chakra with 24 spokes in our national flag was taken from the Saranath Pillar of Ashoka.
The material evidence provided by William Jones, James Prinsep and Alexander Cunningham revealed the greatness of Emperor Ashoka.
Charles Allen wrote a book titled The Search for the India’s Lost Emperor, which provided a comprehensive account of Ashoka.
Sanchi Stupa and Saranath Pillar and helped to understand the greatness of Ashoka to the worl
Mother: Do you know what proto history is?
Tamilini: That is the period between pre
history and history.
The period for which
records in writing are available but not
yet deciphered is called proto history
'Dhamma' is the prakrit
word for the sanskrit
term 'dharma', which
means religious duty.
The life styles of pre historic people
can be understood from the stone
tools, rock paintings, fossils and other
excavated materials.
Early humans domesticated dogs for
their protection and hunting activities.
Mighty Emperor Ashoka followed the
path of peace and dharma.
What was the step taken by the early
man to collect his food?
a. Trade b. Hunting
c. Painting d. Rearing of animals

Statement: Pre historic man went
along with the dog
for hunting.
Reason: Dogs with
its sniffing power
would find out other
animals.

Statement: The objects used by the
early man are excavated. They are
preserved to know the lifestyle of the
people.
Find out which of the following is
related to the statement:
a. Museum b. Burial materials
c. Stone tools d. Bone

Find out the wrong pair:
a. Old stone age - Stone tools
b. Rock
paintings
- Walls of the caves
c. Copper plates - A source of history
d. Cats - First domesticated

4. Find the odd one:
a. Paintings were drawn on rocks and
caves.
b. There were paintings depicting
hunting scenes.
c. It was drawn to show his family
members about hunting.
d. The paintings were painted by using
many colours.

The Old Stone Age man lived mostly
in ------
2.-----is the father of history.
3. ------was the first animal
tamed by Old Stone Age man.
4. Inscriptions are sources---------
5. Dharma Chakra has spoke---------


State True or False
 
1. Stone tools belonging to Old
Stone Age have been excavated at
Athtirampakkam near Chennai.
2. The materials used by the ancient
people are preserved in the museums
by the Archaeological Department.
3. During the period of Ashoka, Buddhism
spread across the country.

Urns excavated from Adhichanallur.
b. Copper plates of Velvikudi.
c. Mahabharatha.
d. Sanchi Stupa.
e. Pattinappaalai.
f. The earthernwares from Keezhadi.
g. Toys of Indus Civilisation.
h. Big Temple of Thanjavur























